-- Adjectives are one of the most exciting parts of speech that we have. 
-- Without adjectives, you wouldn’t be able to tell your friends which movies are 'great' and which are 'overrated'.
-- Adjectives also allow us to describe ourselves as being ''amazing'', 'incredible', 'fantastic', and—of course— 'humble'.
-- Most importantly, adjectives let us explain the difference between 'funny' memes and 'bad' ones.


****** What is an adjective?

-- An adjective is a word that modifies a noun or a pronoun.
-- In general, adjectives usually give us more information about a noun or pronoun by describing it or providing more information 
   about it.
-- For example, the adjective 'funny' is used to say something causes fun or laughter.
-- We are going to look at types of adjectives that we commonly use in everyday writing and speech.


****** Common types of adjectives:

-- We are going to briefly examine 13 different types of adjectives.

Comparative adjectives
Superlative adjectives
Predicate adjectives
Compound adjectives
Possessive adjectives
Demonstrative adjectives
Proper adjectives
Participial adjectives
Limiting adjectives
Descriptive adjectives
Interrogative adjectives
Attributive adjectives
Distributive adjectives


1] Comparative Adjectives:

-- Comparative adjectives are used to compare two different people or things to each other.
-- Some examples of comparative adjectives include words such as 'smaller', 'faster', 'more expensive', and 'less reasonable'.
-- Comparative adjective examples:

    > Whales are 'larger' animals than dolphins.
    > We moved to a 'cheaper' apartment.
    > The sequel was even 'more incredible' than the first movie.
    > I replaced my old computer with a 'newer' one.
    > Shradhha looked at the two dresses and decided to buy the 'more expensive' one.
    > The company claims that their next car will be 'faster' and 'safer'.
    > Kids today are a lot 'more independent' than they were just a decade ago.
    > The end of the book is 'more interesting' than the beginning.
    > Out of the two houses, the mansion is definitely 'more spacious' than the cottage.
    > Generally speaking, cats tend to be' more independent' than dogs.
    > They added gold-plated cup holders to the limo to make it feel 'more luxurious'.
    > The merry-go-round is a 'less intense' ride than the rollercoaster.
    > We left the shopping mall to try and find a 'less crowded' place to hang out.
    > She retired from acting to live a 'less glamorous' life in the countryside.
    > Ted quit his job as a waiter because he wanted to pursue a 'less demanding' career.

-- List of comparative adjectives:

    > angrier, busier, cooler, dustier, more energetic, friendlier, less gruesome, happier, more interesting, 
    > less jarring, kinder, leaner, meaner, nicer, less obstructive, prettier, more questionable, redder, less sincere, 
    > more talented, less ungrateful, vaster, wiser, younger, zestier

-- Comparative adjectives are only used to compare two people or things. If you are comparing more than two things or people, 
   you must use a superlative adjective.

    ❌ Incorrect: When comparing the sizes of birds, ostriches are clearly the larger of them all.
    ✅ Correct: When comparing the sizes of birds, ostriches are clearly the largest of them all.

    ❌ Incorrect: Out of all of the animals in the zoo, the cheetahs are the faster.
    ✅ Correct: Out of all of the animals in the zoo, the cheetahs are the fastest.

    ❌ Incorrect: Chocolate ice cream is more tastier than vanilla ice cream.
    ✅ Correct: Chocolate ice cream is tastier than vanilla ice cream.

    ❌ Incorrect: She is more cleverer than she looks.
    ✅ Correct: She is cleverer than she looks or She is more clever than she looks.

    ❌ Incorrect: Of these two movies, I prefer shorter one.
    ✅ Correct: Of these two movies, I prefer the shorter one.

    ❌ Incorrect: She traded in her old car for newer one.
    ✅ Correct: She traded in her old car for a newer one.

    ❌ Incorrect: Harry is younger brother.
    ✅ Correct: Harry is William’s younger brother.


2] Superlative adjectives:

-- Superlative adjectives are used to compare more than two people or things by indicating which one is the most supreme or extreme. 
-- Some examples of superlative adjectives include words such as smartest, loudest, most impressive, and least valuable.
-- Superlative adjective examples:

    > Shradhha is the 'fastest' member of our team.
    > Out of all of my books, this one is the 'oldest'.
    > We are trying to figure out the 'least' confusing way to explain the lesson to the new students.
    > That was the 'scariest' movie that I ever saw.
    > Out of every movie I have seen, that one was the 'scariest'.
    > Ketan is the 'smartest' student in the class.
    > I think that Abraham Lincoln was our 'greatest' president.
    > If you are looking for good pizza, Luigi’s restaurant has the 'tastiest' in town.
    > Out of all my pets, my old cat Nala is the 'loudest'.
    > I think that the park downtown has the 'most exciting' roller coasters.
    > This might be the 'most interesting'book I have ever read.
    > Try each of these cakes and tell me which one is the 'most delicious'.
    > Todd was wearing the 'most ridiculous' costume at the Halloween party.
    > I need to find the 'least uncomfortable' sweater in my closet.
    > We are looking for the 'least expensive' apartment in the area.
    > When you consider all of the insects in our garden, the ladybugs have been the 'least destructive'.
    > The coffee shops are our 'least profitable' businesses.

-- The adjectives good, bad, well, old, and far have irregular superlative forms. Let’s look at how we use them in sentences.

    > It is important to use the 'best' tool for the job.
    > Stephanie is not feeling at her 'best' today.
    > That might just be the 'worst' idea I have ever heard.
    > My 'eldest' son became a stock broker.
    > Thanks to her intense training, Ana managed to sprint the 'farthest' out of all of the racers in the given time.
    > We searched the 'furthest' ends of the Earth for the missing wallet.

-- List of superlative adjectives:

    > angriest, most boring, coolest, darkest, least entertaining, fattest, goofiest, hungriest, iciest, jolliest, laziest, 
    > most miserable, nicest, most overrated, purplest, quickest, rudest, smallest, tiniest, ugliest, least visible, widest, 
    > youngest, zestiest

-- Superlative adjectives are only used to compare more than two people or things.

    ❌ Incorrect: Cheetahs are fastest than turtles.
    ✅ Correct: Cheetahs are faster than turtles.

    ❌ Incorrect: Out of all of the animals in the zoo, the cheetahs are the faster.
    ✅ Correct: Out of all of the animals in the zoo, the cheetahs are the fastest.

    ❌ Incorrect: Ice cream is the most tastiest food.
    ✅ Correct: Ice cream is the tastiest food.

    ❌ Incorrect: Equality is our most preferredest outcome.
    ✅ Correct: Equality is our most preferred outcome.

    ❌ Incorrect: I need to find the most quietest room in the house.
    ✅ Correct: I need to find the quietest room in the house or I need to find the most quiet room in the house.

    ❌ Incorrect: He sat under tallest tree.
    ✅ Correct: He sat under the tallest tree.

    ❌ Incorrect: Math is most hated class.
    ✅ Correct: Math is Edward’s most hated class.

    ✅ Correct: In my experience, cats are the grouchiest when their sleep is interrupted
    ✅ Correct: In my experience, cats are grouchiest when their sleep is interrupted.


3] Predicate adjectives:

-- Predicate adjectives are adjectives that appear in the predicate of a sentence as a subject complement rather than directly 
   next to the nouns or pronouns that they modify. 
-- Predicate adjectives follow linking verbs in sentences and clauses.
-- Predicate adjective examples :

    > Ketan is 'tall'.
    > Shradhha became 'angry'.
    > The paneer looks 'delicious'.
    > She looks 'sick'.
    > My uncle is very 'rich'.
    > The flag was 'red', 'white', and 'blue'.
    > I was 'late' for work.
    > He was 'sweaty' because he had just run a marathon.


4] Compound adjectives:

-- Compound adjectives are adjectives that are formed from multiple words, which are usually connected by hyphens. 
-- Some examples of compound adjectives include never-ending, cross-eyed, and run-of-the-mill.
-- Compound adjective examples :

    > She had enough of the 'double-dealing' salesman.
    > My 'happy-go-lucky' daughter loved our trip to Disneyland.
    > The 'better-off' members of the city live by the river.
    > Nobody liked Jake and his “holier than thou” attitude.
    > Reading this book is an 'eye-opening' experience.
    > Even though the car was 10 years old, it still looked 'brand-new'.
    > She was 'really happy'.
    > He became 'extremely tired'.

-- Proper nouns are also used without hyphens as compound adjectives. However, they often use capital letters:

    > We went to the 'Red Hot Chili Peppers' concert.
    > The movie had a 'Lord of the Rings' feel to it.

-- List of compound adjectives :

    > double-sided, wishy-washy, top-of-the-line, 700-word, eight-hour, fat-free, never-ending, Spanish-speaking, 
    > middle-aged, gender-neutral, out-of-the-way, born-again


5] Possessive adjectives:

-- Possessive adjectives are often used to express possession or ownership. 
-- The most commonly used possessive adjectives are my, your, its, her, his, our, their, and whose.
-- Possessive adjective examples :

    > 'My' favorite food is pizza.
    > Sydney spent the day with 'her' parents.
    > Indians celebrated 'their' team’s victory in the T20 world cup.

-- Unlike many other adjectives, possessive adjectives can only be used directly in front of the noun that they modify:

    ✅ Correct: We went to my house.
    ❌ Incorrect: This house is my.

    ✅ Correct: The lions hunted their prey.
    ❌ Incorrect: I want to give the lions this toy because I know it is their.

    ❌ Incorrect: This backpack is my.
    ✅ Correct: This backpack is mine.

    ❌ Incorrect: His cat is older than your.
    ✅ Correct: His cat is older than yours OR His cat is older than your cat.


6] Demonstrative adjectives:

-- Demonstrative adjectives are used to express relative positions in space and time. 
-- The most commonly used demonstrative adjectives are this, that, these, and those.
-- Demonstrative adjective examples :

    > 'This' watch is cheaper than that one.
    > 'This' weekend is going to be really fun.
    > Watch out for 'those' prickly rose bushes next to you.
    > 'This' day has been great! (This indicates a day close to the present moment, i.e. the current day.)
    > I remember 'that' day like it was yesterday. (That indicates a day that occurred long before the current moment, possibly 
      the distant past.)
    > 'These' next couple of Saturdays should be fun. (These indicates that the Saturdays will occur in the near future.)
    > 'Those' hard years took a toll on him. (Those indicates that the years happened in the relatively distant past.)
    > 'This' green ball is mine.
    > 'That' huge, ferocious lion looks really hungry.
    > I want 'these' sparkly sunglasses.
    > 'Those' sly, suspicious-looking sneaks have shifty schemes.
    > 'This' book is interesting. (Book is a singular noun.)
    > She wants to climb 'those' hills. (Hills is a plural noun.)
    > 'These' bacteria are toxic to humans. (Although it may not look like it, bacteria is a plural noun and so it must use 
      either these or those.)

    ❌ Incorrect: I want to hug cute puppy that.
    ❌ Incorrect: I want to hug cute that puppy.
    ✅ Correct: I want to hug that cute puppy.


7] Proper adjectives:

-- Proper adjectives are adjectives formed from proper nouns. 
-- In general, proper adjectives are commonly used to say that something is related to a specific person or place. 
-- Proper adjectives include words such as African, Napoleonic, and Shakespearian.
-- Proper adjective examples :

    > He was reading a 'Russian' newspaper.
    > I think 'Chinese' food is tasty.
    > We studied the history of 'Victorian' England in school today.
    > This week we are learning about 'Japenese' history.
    > 'Roman' architecture is beautiful.
    > Researchers thought the artifacts might be 'Chinese' in origin.
    > My father is 'Albanian', and my mother is 'Polish'.

    ❌ Incorrect: Our family is hindu.
    ✅ Correct: Our family is Hindu.   


8] Participial adjectives:

-- Participial adjectives are adjectives that are based on participles, which are words that usually end in -ed or -ing and 
   derive from verbs. 
-- Participial adjectives include words like amazing, impressed, and fascinating.
-- Participial adjective examples :

    > Travis was late for his 'swimming' lessons.
    > Please hand me my 'reading' glasses.
    > The silly clown cheered up the 'bored' children.
    > I put on my 'running' shoes.
    > She was really 'tired'.
    > He is taking his 'driving' test today.
    > She was 'scared'.
    > Teresa bought her niece a coloring book. (The participial adjective coloring modifies the word book; it indicates that the 
      book is intended to be colored on.)
    > The math class was incredibly boring. (The participial adjective boring is the subject complement that describes the math class. 
      The sentence says that the math class bored the students.)
    > He fixed the broken radio. (The participle adjective broken describes the noun radio; the radio had been broken by someone 
      or something.)


-- Types of participial adjectives :

-- Both past participles and present participles are used as participial adjectives.

1) Past participles as participial adjectives :

-- There are many participial adjectives formed from past participles. For regular verbs, adding -ed to the base form creates 
   the past participle. 
-- The following list gives just some examples:

    > awakened, burnt, crushed, destroyed, enhanced, frozen, glazed, heated, iced, jinxed, kept, licensed, mangled, notched, 
    > opened, pickled, quilted, rented, silenced, televised, unleashed, vaccinated, whispered, yelled, zapped


2) Present participles as participial adjectives :

-- Lots of present participles are used as participle adjectives, too. 
-- Adding -ing to the base form of a verb creates the present participle.

    > answering, boring, caring, daring, entertaining, freezing, guessing, hiding, itching, jutting, kissing, listening, moving, 
    > nursing, pleasing, quivering, rustling, smiling, tantalizing, unloading, visiting, waiting, yodeling, zooming


9] Limiting adjectives:

-- Limiting adjectives are adjectives that restrict a noun or pronoun rather than describe any of its characteristics or qualities. 
-- Limiting adjectives overlap with other types of adjectives such as demonstrative adjectives and possessive adjectives. 
-- Limiting adjectives include words such as these, your, and some.
-- Limiting adjective examples :

> I bought 'some' eggs at the store.
> She found 'three' pennies under the couch cushions.
> Take a look at 'that' house over there.
> Flora owns 'friendly' cats.                   # Descriptive adjective
> Flora owns 'some' cats.                       # Limiting adjective

-- In the above example, the adjective some doesn’t describe anything about the cats. We don’t know what the cats look like, how 
   they act, or anything else about them. We haven’t learned any information that would help us describe these specific cats.
-- This lack of description is what makes limiting adjectives unique.


10] Descriptive adjectives:

-- Descriptive adjectives are adjectives that describe the characteristics, traits, or qualities of a noun or pronoun. 
-- Most adjectives are descriptive adjectives. Words such as purple, friendly, and attractive are examples of descriptive 
   adjectives.
-- Descriptive adjective examples :

    > A lot of 'interesting' people visit this park.
    > She told a 'scary' story.
    > The leaves turned 'orange' and 'red'.
    > He stood next to the 'tall' woman.
    > The monkeys were very 'loud'. 
    > Hand me 'that' pen.
    > We played with the 'cute' kittens.
    > The skyscraper was 'humongous'.
    > I don’t like cold weather. (The adjective cold modifies the noun weather. Cold is a descriptive adjective that qualifies 
      the weather by saying it has a low temperature.)'
    > Her clothes are really expensive. (The adjective expensive modifies the noun clothes. Expensive is a descriptive adjective that 
      tells us the clothes cost a lot of money.)
    > We used 'red', 'green', and 'orange' paint. (The adjectives red, green, and orange modify the noun paint. All three of these 
      adjectives are descriptive adjectives that say what color the paint was.)

-- List of descriptive adjectives :

    > angry, blue, careful, dry, eager, fast, great, hot, incredible, jumpy, klutzy, little, mighty, nice, outlandish, 
    > prim, quiet, rude, special, ticklish, undercover, vicious, wide, young, zesty


11] Interrogative adjective:

-- Interrogative adjectives are adjectives that are used to ask questions. 
-- The interrogative adjectives are what, which, and whose.
-- Interrogative adjective examples :

    > 'What' color is your favorite?
    > 'Which' button turns off the lights?
    > 'Whose' turn is it to wash the cat?
    > I have three cakes here. 'Which' one do you want?
    > 'What' town did they move to?
    > 'Which' movie do you want to see?
    > 'Whose' party are we going to?
    > I forgot to ask her which dress I was supposed to buy.
    > Did he ask you whose car was parked in the yard?
    > Whose lunch is this? (Whose modifies the noun lunch. It is used to ask who the lunch belongs to.)
    > What building is the meeting in? (What modifies the noun building. It is used to ask where the location of the meeting is.)
    > Which bag is Amanda’s? (Which modifies the noun bag. It is used to ask for help identifying the bag that belongs to Amanda.)


-- List of interrogative adjectives :

-- There are only three interrogative adjectives. They are:

    which
    what
    whose

-- The word whose is also a possessive adjective, which means you may also see it used outside of questions:

    > I need to find out 'whose' money this is.


12] Attributive adjectives:

-- Attributive adjectives are adjectives that are directly next to the noun and pronoun that they modify. 
-- Usually, attributive adjectives come directly before nouns and pronouns but they modify. But they can sometimes appear 
   after them.
-- Attributive adjective examples :

    > She has 'beautiful' handwriting.
    > The 'hungry' gorilla ate the 'fresh' mangoes.
    > Keith gave his dad something 'special' for his birthday.
    > She has a 'small' car.
    > He has some 'delicious' pies.
    > I got my mom something 'special'.
    > Usain is the fastest man 'alive'.
    > Emir loves 'spicy' food. (The attributive adjective spicy modifies the noun food.)
    > Silly, 'spunky' simians smiled at Simon. (The attributive adjectives silly and spunky modify the noun simians.)
    > I thought Paula was waiting for Rick, but she said she was expecting someone else. (The attributive adjective else modifies the 
    pronoun someone.)


13] Distributive adjectives:

-- Distributive adjectives are used to refer to members of a group individually. 
-- Examples of distributive adjectives include each, every, either, and neither.
-- Distributive adjective examples :

    > 'Each' puppy got their own little doghouse.
    > 'Every' member of the team scored a goal.
    > I’ll be happy if 'either' candidate wins the election.
    > 'Every' house on the street has a chimney.
    > 'Either' option sounds good to me.
    > 'Any' person can make a donation.

-- List of distributive adjectives :

-- Some of the most commonly used distributive adjectives include:

    each
    every
    either
    neither
    any
    both

-- The words either, neither, and both are used to refer to situations in which there are two options.

    > Either path will get us out of the woods.
    > There could be a hairy spider in either box.
    > Neither man knew how to fly a plane.
    > Neither answer sounded right.
    > Both cats chased the mouse.
    > He carried the bucket using both hands.












