-- 'The children were asleep. Their parents were asleep. Their dogs were asleep.' These sentences work fine separately but seem a 
   little repetitive, don’t you think? Instead, let’s use a conjunction to connect them together. 
-- A conjunction is a word or phrase that connects words, phrases, clauses, and sentences together. 
-- The word 'and' is a commonly used example of a conjunction.
-- Here are two examples of how we can use a conjunction like 'and' in both a simple and complex way:
    > The flower is yellow and white. (connects two adjectives)
    > The flower is yellow, and it has a particular smell. (connects two sentences)
-- Conjunctions are useful in writing and speech to connect related ideas together, and they help us make our sentences shorter, 
   less repetitive, or less confusing.
-- List of common conjunctions:

    - The following list contains some of the most commonly used conjunctions:

            and
            but
            or
            so
            because
            however
            after
            since
            during
            than
            unless
            that
            while

-- Some more examples :

    > Everyone sang 'and' danced.
    > He might have gone to the park, or he may have returned home. (Or connects two sentences.)
    > 'Whenever' it rains, we stay inside and watch movies.
    > We stay inside and watch movies 'whenever' it rains.
    > I need flowers that are either red or pink. (lists two options)
    > She would much rather play outside than sit in the house. (states a preferred choice)
    > The dog was as big as a horse! (forms a simile)
    > I am hungry 'and' tired.
    > He tried to buy some food, 'but' the store was closed.
    > Cheetahs run faster 'than' most other animals.
    > 'Since' we were kids, we have loved riding roller coasters.
    > The soup has 'both' carrots 'and' onions.
    > You might think we know everything there is to know about dinosaurs. 'But' you’d be wrong.
    > The Grinch never liked Christmas trees. 'Or' anything else that had to do with Christmas.